---
title: Capital Bike Share
---


Welcome to the **Project 3** which focuses on **Data Wrangling**, **Exploratory Data Analysis**, **Time Series** and **Linear Regression**.

You will have to analyse a dataset from a company called [**Capital Bike Share**](https://www.capitalbikeshare.com/).

In these three weeks you will mainly focus on analysis and at the end you will create a model (or several models) to forcast the demand for bicycles.

You can find the datasets here: <https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1IjU6ME9q8NMkLeUz3Quh9g3sSwWPQJem?usp=sharing>

Start with the hourly or daily dataset to get a good overview of how things like time of day, day of the week, season and weather conditions affect demand for bikes.
After that, feel free to dive in to the full dataset containing details of every ride. This will be useful when we cover mapping techniques, allowing us to visualise areas of high and low demand, among other things

In any case, remember that the end goal is to help Capital Bike Share improve their services.

This time the dataset will not be as clean as the previous one, and you might have to check other resources to analyse the data correctly.

With environmental issues and health becoming trending topics, the usage of bicycles as a mode of transportation has gained popularity in recent years. To encourage bike usage, cities across the world have successfully implemented bike-sharing programs. Under such schemes, riders can rent bicycles using manual/automated kiosks spread across the city for defined periods. In most cases, riders can pick up bikes from one location and return them to any other designated place.

Bike riders reduce traffic congestion as they form a valid substitution for cars on short/medium trips, contribute to the use of public transport by providing effective last-mile connectivity, and simply take up less space on the road. The characteristics of data being generated by these systems also make an attractive option for the researchers who can try to understand traffic routes in a city.

You are encouraged to have a look at Bike Rentals companies in general so that you can become more familiar with this business domain. This page on [Bike visualizations](https://www.visualization.bike/) could be of some use to you!

**Completion Time**: 3 weeks
